In this video, we're going to
look at how we can combine
Excel functions to get
even more power and
solve those more
complicated problems.
In the last example,
we used a MID function to
extract the first
letter of the location.
Zara really needs the Full Name.
The only problem
is that Sydney is
six letters and Melbourne
is nine letters.
So she can't just type a
six or a nine in here.
She needs Excel to calculate
that length for her.
The good news is that Excel is
very good at working
with patterns.
As long as there's a
pattern in the data,
it can probably help.
If you had data that was
all lowercase 'mickeymouse',
although our brains
could immediately
split that, there is no pattern.
It's all lowercase.
Excel can't help us.
But with our customer
purchase order,
there are a couple of
fairly obvious patterns.
You'll notice, for example,
that the location always
has three characters
before it and always
has a hyphen after it.
So if we can just locate
the position of the hyphen,
we can work out how
long a location is.
This is exactly what
we're going to do
using Excel's FIND function.
I'm going to start by
doing the FIND on its
own and will just borrow
the 'type' column for this.
In P2, we're going to
type "=FIN" and TAB.
What the FIND does is
find a string within
another string and return
the position at which it starts.
By default, it will return
the first instance it finds,
but we'll see that we can
specify a start position.
The first thing it
wants to know is
the string or the texts
you're looking for,
and in this situation,
it's our hyphen.
So open double-quotes, hyphen,
close double-quotes,
and now type a comma.
The second thing it
wants to know is
where we're searching
for this hyphen,
and we're looking for
it in our customer
PO, and type a comma.
The last argument
has square brackets,
and that means it's optional,
which means in
certain circumstances
we don't have to supply it.
If we were quite happy
for Excel to find
the first hyphen, we
could leave it off,
but we don't want
the first hyphen and
we want the second,
so we need to specify
that it starts
from position four or somewhere
after the first hyphen.
That's our FIND and if I press
"Enter," it told me it found
the second hyphen at
position 10, that's great.
The problem is I don't actually
want to extract 10 characters,
I only want to extract six.
I need to account for
the fact that there are
three characters before
Sydney and the hyphen after,
that's all being included
in that calculation.
So I need to subtract four to
get back to my actual location
length, which is six.
Coming back into P2,
I'm going to double-click
and I'm gonna type minus
four outside the brackets
and press "Enter,"
and there's my six.
Now that I've done that,
I could go and retype
it into my MID,
but I don't need to, I
can just copy paste.
So I'm going to select
everything from
FIND to the end of
the minus four,
but don't include the equals
and "Control+C" to copy.
Now press "Escape" so you don't
accidentally mess
up your formula,
and double-click back into O2.
Where we had our one previously,
we're going to remove that
and we're going to
paste in our FIND,
"Control+V" to paste.
Now press "Enter."
There is Sydney,
and if I double-clicked copy
down, there's all my Melbournes.
That was how we
could use the FIND.
But the FIND does
rely on us having
some form of delimiter
and we don't always
have that luxury.
What about if there were no
hyphens in this example?
Well, actually there is
another pattern as well.
The location is
always preceded by
three characters and
has seven after.
In other words, the total
length of the string is
always going to be
10 plus my location.
If I get the total length of
the string and subtract 10,
that will tell me how
long my location name is.
There's a function that
can help us with this.
It's called the LEN function,
which is an
abbreviation of length.
Let's see how it works.
Clicking back into P2,
I'm going to type equals LEN,
and tab to open my brackets,
and then I'm going to click on
my purchase order number
and press "Enter."
As we would expect, the
total length is 16.
Now we need to subtract
the 10 characters that
are not our location.
So I'm just going
to type minus 10,
and we're back to our six.
Brilliant. Let's finish that
off by putting our
MID function in.
Just after the equals,
I'm going to type "MID" and tab,
the text I'm trying
to chop up is G2.
I need to start at position 4,
and a comma, and that's
how many characters I
need to extract that.
But now we have more than
one set of brackets,
we must remember to close
our brackets for our MID.
Tip to the wise. Make sure
you last bracket is black.
When I press "Enter,"
there is Sydney,
and if I copy down,
there are my locations.
So two great solutions
to this problem,
one using FIND, one using LEN.
The important takeaway though
is to see how we can
actually combine
Excel functions to get
even more power and solve
those more complicated problems.